d.barscale Displays a barscale on the graphics monitor.

d.colorlist Output a list of all available display colors with a configurable separator (default is comma).

d.colortable Displays the color table associated with a raster map layer.

d.correlate Prints a graph of the correlation between raster maps (in pairs).

d.erase Erases the contents of the active graphics display frame with user defined color.

d.font Selects the font in which text will be displayed on the user's graphics monitor.

d.fontlist Lists the available fonts.

d.geodesic Displays a geodesic line, tracing the shortest distance between two geographic points along a great circle, in a longitude/latitude data set.

d.graph Program for generating and displaying simple graphics on the display monitor.

d.grid Overlays a user-specified grid in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.

d.his Displays the result obtained by combining hue, intensity, and saturation (his) values from user-specified input raster map layers.

d.histogram Displays a histogram in the form of a pie or bar chart for a user-specified raster map.

d.info Displays information about the active display monitor.

d.labels Displays text labels (created with v.label) to the active frame on the graphics monitor.

d.legend Displays a legend for a 2D or 3D raster map in the active frame of the graphics monitor.

d.linegraph Generates and displays simple line graphs in the active graphics monitor display frame.

d.mon Controls graphics display monitors from the command line.

d.northarrow Displays a north arrow on the graphics monitor.

d.out.file Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a graphics file.

d.path Finds shortest path for selected starting and ending node.

d.polar Draws polar diagram of angle map such as aspect or flow directions

d.profile Plots profile of a transect.

d.rast.arrow Draws arrows representing cell aspect direction for a raster map containing aspect data.

d.rast.edit Edits cell values in a raster map.

d.rast Displays user-specified raster map in the active graphics frame.

d.rast.leg Displays a raster map and its legend on a graphics window

d.rast.num Overlays cell category values on a raster map displayed in the active graphics frame.

d.redraw Redraws the content of currently selected monitor.

d.rgb Displays three user-specified raster maps as red, green, and blue overlays in the active graphics frame.

d.rhumbline Displays the rhumbline joining two longitude/latitude coordinates.

d.shadedmap Drapes a color raster over a shaded relief map.

d.text Draws text in the active display frame on the graphics monitor using the current font.

d.thematic.area Displays a thematic vector area map in the active frame on the graphics monitor.

d.title Create a TITLE for a raster map in a form suitable for display with d.text.

d.to.rast Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a raster map.

d.vect.chart Displays charts of vector data in the active frame on the graphics monitor.

d.vect Displays user-specified vector map in the active graphics frame.

d.vect.thematic Displays thematic vector map

d.what.rast Allows the user to interactively query raster map layers at user-selected locations.

d.what.vect Allows the user to interactively query vector map layers at user-selected locations.

d.where Identifies the geographic coordinates associated with point locations given in display coordinates.

db.columns List all columns for a given table.

db.connect Prints/sets general DB connection for current mapset.

db.copy Copy a table.

db.createdb Creates an empty database.

db.databases Lists all databases for a given driver and location.

db.describe Describes a table in detail.

db.drivers Lists all database drivers.

db.dropcolumn Drops a column from selected attribute table.

db.dropdb Removes an existing database.

db.droptable Drops an attribute table.

db.execute Executes any SQL statement.

db.in.ogr Imports attribute tables in various formats.

db.login Sets user/password for DB driver/database.

db.out.ogr Exports attribute tables into various formats.

db.select Selects data from attribute table.

db.tables Lists all tables for a given database.

db.test Test database driver, database must exist and set by db.connect.

db.univar Calculates univariate statistics on selected table column.

g.access Controls access to the current mapset for other users on the system.

g.cairocomp Overlays multiple X Pixmaps.

g.copy Copies available data files in the current mapset search path to the user's current mapset.

g.dirseps Internal GRASS utility for converting directory separator characters.

g.extension.all Rebuilds or removes all locally installed GRASS Addons extensions.

g.extension Maintains GRASS Addons extensions in local GRASS installation.

g.filename Prints GRASS data base file names.

g.findetc Searches for GRASS support files.

g.findfile Searches for GRASS data base files and sets variables for the shell.

g.gisenv Outputs and modifies the user's current GRASS variable settings.

g.gui.animation Tool for animating a series of raster and vector maps or a space time raster or vector dataset.

g.gui.dbmgr Launches graphical attribute table manager.

g.gui.gcp Georectifies a map and allows to manage Ground Control Points.

g.gui.gmodeler Graphical Modeler.

g.gui Launches a GRASS graphical user interface (GUI) session.

g.gui.iclass Tool for supervised classification of imagery data.

g.gui.mapswipe Interactively compares two maps by swiping a visibility bar.

g.gui.psmap Tool for creating hardcopy map outputs.

g.gui.rlisetup Configuration tool for r.li modules.

g.gui.timeline Allows to compare temporal datasets by displaying their temporal extents in a plot.

g.gui.vdigit Interactive editing and digitization of vector maps.

g.list Lists available GRASS data base files of the user-specified data type optionally using the search pattern.

g.manual Displays the manual pages of GRASS modules.

g.mapset Changes/reports current mapset.

g.mapsets Modifies/prints the user's current mapset search path.

g.message Prints a message, warning, progress info, or fatal error in the GRASS way.

g.mkfontcap Generates the font configuration file by scanning various directories for fonts.

g.parser Provides automated parser, GUI, and help support for GRASS scipts.

g.pnmcomp Overlays multiple PPM image files.

g.ppmtopng Converts between PPM/PGM and PNG image formats.

g.proj Prints or modifies GRASS projection information files (in various co-ordinate system descriptions).

g.region Manages the boundary definitions for the geographic region.

g.remove Removes data base element files from the user's current mapset using the search pattern.

g.rename Renames data base element files in the user's current mapset.

g.tempfile Creates a temporary file and prints it's file name.

g.version Displays GRASS version info.

i.albedo Computes broad band albedo from surface reflectance.

i.aster.toar Calculates Top of Atmosphere Radiance/Reflectance/Brightness Temperature from ASTER DN.

i.atcorr Performs atmospheric correction using the 6S algorithm.

i.biomass Computes biomass growth, precursor of crop yield calculation.

i.cca Canonical components analysis (CCA) program for image processing.

i.cluster Generates spectral signatures for land cover types in an image using a clustering algorithm.

i.colors.enhance Performs auto-balancing of colors for RGB images.

i.eb.eta Actual evapotranspiration for diurnal period (Bastiaanssen, 1995).

i.eb.evapfr Computes evaporative fraction (Bastiaanssen, 1995) and root zone soil moisture (Makin, Molden and Bastiaanssen, 2001).

i.eb.hsebal01 Computes sensible heat flux iteration SEBAL 01.

i.eb.netrad Net radiation approximation (Bastiaanssen, 1995).

i.eb.soilheatflux Soil heat flux approximation (Bastiaanssen, 1995).

i.emissivity Computes emissivity from NDVI, generic method for sparse land.

i.evapo.mh Computes evapotranspiration calculation modified or original Hargreaves formulation, 2001.

i.evapo.pm Computes potential evapotranspiration calculation with hourly Penman-Monteith.

i.evapo.pt Computes evapotranspiration calculation Priestley and Taylor formulation, 1972.

i.evapo.time Computes temporal integration of satellite ET actual (ETa) following the daily ET reference (ETo) from meteorological station(s).

i.fft Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) for image processing.

i.gensig Generates statistics for i.maxlik from raster map.

i.gensigset Generates statistics for i.smap from raster map.

i.group Creates, edits, and lists groups of imagery data.

i.his.rgb Transforms raster maps from HIS (Hue-Intensity-Saturation) color space to RGB (Red-Green-Blue) color space.

i.ifft Inverse Fast Fourier Transform (IFFT) for image processing.

i.image.mosaic Mosaics several images and extends colormap.

i.in.spotvgt Imports SPOT VGT NDVI data into a raster map.

i.landsat.acca Performs Landsat TM/ETM+ Automatic Cloud Cover Assessment (ACCA).

i.landsat.toar Calculates top-of-atmosphere radiance or reflectance and temperature for Landsat MSS/TM/ETM+/OLI

i.maxlik Classifies the cell spectral reflectances in imagery data.

i.modis.qc Extracts quality control parameters from MODIS QC layers.

i.oif Calculates Optimum-Index-Factor table for spectral bands

i.ortho.camera Select and modify the imagery group camera reference file.

i.ortho.elev Select or modify the target elevation model.

i.ortho.rectify Orthorectifies an image by using the image to photo coordinate transformation matrix.

i.pansharpen Image fusion algorithms to sharpen multispectral with high-res panchromatic channels

i.pca Principal components analysis (PCA) for image processing.

i.rectify Rectifies an image by computing a coordinate transformation for each pixel in the image based on the control points.

i.rgb.his Transforms raster maps from RGB (Red-Green-Blue) color space to HIS (Hue-Intensity-Saturation) color space.

i.segment Identifies segments (objects) from imagery data.

i.smap Performs contextual image classification using sequential maximum a posteriori (SMAP) estimation.

i.spectral Displays spectral response at user specified locations in group or images.

i.target Targets an imagery group to a GRASS location and mapset.

i.tasscap Performs Tasseled Cap (Kauth Thomas) transformation.

i.topo.corr Computes topographic correction of reflectance.

i.vi Calculates different types of vegetation indices.

i.zc Zero-crossing "edge detection" raster function for image processing.

m.cogo A simple utility for converting bearing and distance measurements to coordinates and vice versa.

m.measure Measures the lengths and areas of features.

m.nviz.image Creates a 3D rendering of GIS data.

m.nviz.script Creates fly-through script to run in NVIZ.

m.proj Converts coordinates from one projection to another (cs2cs frontend).

m.transform Computes a coordinate transformation based on the control points.

Postscript commands (ps.*)

ps.map Produces hardcopy PostScript map output.

r.basins.fill Generates watershed subbasins raster map.

r.blend Blends color components of two raster maps by a given ratio.

r.buffer Creates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells that contain non-NULL category values.

r.buffer.lowmem Creates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells that contain non-NULL category values.

r.carve Generates stream channels.

r.category Manages category values and labels associated with user-specified raster map layers.

r.circle Creates a raster map containing concentric rings around a given point.

r.clump Recategorizes data in a raster map by grouping cells that form physically discrete areas into unique categories.

r.coin Tabulates the mutual occurrence (coincidence) of categories for two raster map layers.

r.colors Creates/modifies the color table associated with a raster map.

r.colors.out Exports the color table associated with a raster map.

r.colors.stddev Sets color rules based on stddev from a raster map's mean value.

r.composite Combines red, green and blue raster maps into a single composite raster map.

r.compress Compresses and decompresses raster maps.

r.contour Produces a vector map of specified contours from a raster map.

r.cost Creates a raster map showing the cumulative cost of moving between different geographic locations on an input raster map whose cell category values represent cost.

r.covar Outputs a covariance/correlation matrix for user-specified raster map layer(s).

r.cross Creates a cross product of the category values from multiple raster map layers.

r.describe Prints terse list of category values found in a raster map layer.

r.distance Locates the closest points between objects in two raster maps.

r.drain Traces a flow through an elevation model or cost surface on a raster map.

r.external Links GDAL supported raster data as a pseudo GRASS raster map.

r.external.out Defines raster output format utilizing GDAL library.

r.fill.dir Filters and generates a depressionless elevation map and a flow direction map from a given elevation raster map.

r.fillnulls Fills no-data areas in raster maps using spline interpolation.

r.flow Constructs flowlines.

r.grow.distance Generates a raster map containing distances to nearest raster features.

r.grow Generates a raster map layer with contiguous areas grown by one cell.

r.gwflow Numerical calculation program for transient, confined and unconfined groundwater flow in two dimensions.

r.his Generates red, green and blue raster map layers combining hue, intensity and saturation (HIS) values from user-specified input raster map layers.

r.horizon Computes horizon angle height from a digital elevation model.

r.in.ascii Converts a GRASS ASCII raster file to binary raster map.

r.in.aster Georeference, rectify, and import Terra-ASTER imagery and relative DEMs using gdalwarp.

r.in.bin Import a binary raster file into a GRASS raster map layer.

r.in.gdal Imports raster data into a GRASS raster map using GDAL library.

r.in.gridatb Imports GRIDATB.FOR map file (TOPMODEL) into a GRASS raster map.

r.in.lidar Creates a raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.

r.in.mat Imports a binary MAT-File(v4) to a GRASS raster.

r.in.png Imports non-georeferenced PNG format image.

r.in.poly Creates raster maps from ASCII polygon/line/point data files.

r.in.srtm Imports SRTM HGT files into raster map.

r.in.wms Downloads and imports data from WMS/WMTS/NASA OnEarth server.

r.in.xyz Creates a raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics.

r.info Outputs basic information about a raster map.

r.kappa Calculates error matrix and kappa parameter for accuracy assessment of classification result.

r.lake Fills lake at given point to given level.

r.latlong Creates a latitude/longitude raster map.

r.li.cwed Calculates contrast weighted edge density index on a raster map

r.li.daemon Support module for r.li landscape index calculations.

r.li.dominance Calculates dominance's diversity index on a raster map

r.li.edgedensity Calculates edge density index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm

r.li 

r.li.mpa Calculates mean pixel attribute index on a raster map

r.li.mps Calculates mean patch size index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm

r.li.padcv Calculates coefficient of variation of patch area on a raster map

r.li.padrange Calculates range of patch area size on a raster map

r.li.padsd Calculates standard deviation of patch area a raster map

r.li.patchdensity Calculates patch density index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm

r.li.patchnum Calculates patch number index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm.

r.li.pielou Calculates Pielou's diversity index on a raster map

r.li.renyi Calculates Renyi's diversity index on a raster map

r.li.richness Calculates richness index on a raster map

r.li.shannon Calculates Shannon's diversity index on a raster map

r.li.shape Calculates shape index on a raster map

r.li.simpson Calculates Simpson's diversity index on a raster map

r.mapcalc Raster map calculator.

r.mask Creates a MASK for limiting raster operation.

r.mfilter Performs raster map matrix filter.

r.mode Finds the mode of values in a cover map within areas assigned the same category value in a user-specified base map.

r.neighbors Makes each cell category value a function of the category values assigned to the cells around it, and stores new cell values in an output raster map layer.

r.null Manages NULL-values of given raster map.

r.out.ascii Converts a raster map layer into a GRASS ASCII text file.

r.out.bin Exports a GRASS raster to a binary array.

r.out.gdal Exports GRASS raster maps into GDAL supported formats.

r.out.gridatb Exports GRASS raster map to GRIDATB.FOR map file (TOPMODEL).

r.out.mat Exports a GRASS raster to a binary MAT-File.

r.out.mpeg Converts raster map series to MPEG movie.

r.out.png Export a GRASS raster map as a non-georeferenced PNG image.

r.out.pov Converts a raster map layer into a height-field file for POV-Ray.

r.out.ppm Converts a GRASS raster map to a PPM image file.

r.out.ppm3 Converts 3 GRASS raster layers (R,G,B) to a PPM image file.

r.out.vrml Exports a raster map to the Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML).

r.out.vtk Converts raster maps into the VTK-ASCII format.

r.out.xyz Exports a raster map to a text file as x,y,z values based on cell centers.

r.pack Packs up a raster map and support files for copying.

r.param.scale Extracts terrain parameters from a DEM.

r.patch Creates a composite raster map layer by using known category values from one (or more) map layer(s) to fill in areas of "no data" in another map layer.

r.plane Creates raster plane map given dip (inclination), aspect (azimuth) and one point.

r.profile Outputs the raster map layer values lying on user-defined line(s).

r.proj Re-projects a raster map from given location to the current location.

r.quant Produces the quantization file for a floating-point map.

r.quantile Compute quantiles using two passes.

r.random.cells Generates random cell values with spatial dependence.

r.random Creates a raster map layer and vector point map containing randomly located points.

r.random.surface Generates random surface(s) with spatial dependence.

r.reclass.area Reclasses a raster map greater or less than user specified area size (in hectares).

r.reclass Reclassify raster map based on category values.

r.recode Recodes categorical raster maps.

r.region Sets the boundary definitions for a raster map.

r.regression.line Calculates linear regression from two raster maps: y = a + b*x.

r.regression.multi Calculates multiple linear regression from raster maps.

r.report Reports statistics for raster maps.

r.resamp.bspline Performs bilinear or bicubic spline interpolation with Tykhonov regularization.

r.resamp.filter Resamples raster map layers using an analytic kernel.

r.resamp.interp Resamples raster map to a finer grid using interpolation.

r.resamp.rst Reinterpolates and optionally computes topographic analysis from input raster map to a new raster map (possibly with different resolution) using regularized spline with tension and smoothing.

r.resamp.stats Resamples raster map layers to a coarser grid using aggregation.

r.resample GRASS raster map layer data resampling capability.

r.rescale.eq Rescales histogram equalized the range of category values in a raster map layer.

r.rescale Rescales the range of category values in a raster map layer.

r.rgb Splits a raster map into red, green and blue maps.

r.ros Generates rate of spread raster maps.

r.series.accumulate Makes each output cell value a accumulationfunction of the values assigned to the corresponding cells in the input raster map layers.

r.series Makes each output cell value a function of the values assigned to the corresponding cells in the input raster map layers.

r.series.interp Interpolate raster maps located (temporal or spatial) in between input raster maps at specific sampling positions.

r.shaded.relief Creates shaded relief map from an elevation map (DEM).

r.sim.sediment Sediment transport and erosion/deposition simulation using path sampling method (SIMWE).

r.sim.water Overland flow hydrologic simulation using path sampling method (SIMWE).

r.slope.aspect Generates raster maps of slope, aspect, curvatures and partial derivatives from an elevation raster map.

r.solute.transport Numerical calculation program for transient, confined and unconfined solute transport in two dimensions

r.spread Simulates elliptically anisotropic spread.

r.spreadpath Recursively traces the least cost path backwards to cells from which the cumulative cost was determined.

r.statistics Calculates category or object oriented statistics.

r.stats Generates area statistics for raster map.

r.stats.quantile Compute category quantiles using two passes.

r.stats.zonal Calculates category or object oriented statistics (accumulator-based statistics).

r.stream.extract Performs stream network extraction.

r.sun Solar irradiance and irradiation model.

r.sunhours Calculates solar elevation, solar azimuth, and sun hours.

r.sunmask Calculates cast shadow areas from sun position and elevation raster map.

r.support Allows creation and/or modification of raster map layer support files.

r.support.stats Update raster map statistics

r.surf.area Prints estimation of surface area for raster map.

r.surf.contour Generates surface raster map from rasterized contours.

r.surf.fractal Creates a fractal surface of a given fractal dimension.

r.surf.gauss Generates a raster map using gaussian random number generator.

r.surf.idw Surface interpolation utility for raster map.

r.surf.idw2 Surface generation program.

r.surf.random Produces a raster surface map of uniform random deviates with defined range.

r.terraflow Flow computation for massive grids (float version).

r.texture Generate images with textural features from a raster map.

r.thin Thins non-zero cells that denote linear features in a raster map layer.

r.tile Splits a raster map into tiles.

r.tileset Produces tilings of the source projection for use in the destination region and projection.

r.timestamp Modifies a timestamp for a raster map.

r.to.rast3 Converts 2D raster map slices to one 3D raster volume map.

r.to.rast3elev Creates a 3D volume map based on 2D elevation and value raster maps.

r.to.vect Converts a raster map into a vector map.

r.topidx Creates a topographic index raster map from an elevation raster map.

r.topmodel Simulates TOPMODEL which is a physically based hydrologic model.

r.transect Outputs raster map layer values lying along user defined transect line(s).

r.univar Calculates univariate statistics from the non-null cells of a raster map.

r.unpack Unpacks a raster map packed with r.pack.

r.uslek Computes USLE Soil Erodibility Factor (K).

r.usler Computes USLE R factor, Rainfall erosivity index.

r.viewshed Computes the viewshed of a point on an elevation raster map.

r.volume Calculates the volume of data "clumps".

r.walk Outputs a raster map showing the anisotropic cumulative cost.

r.water.outlet Creates watershed basins from a drainage direction map.

r.watershed Calculates hydrological parameters and RUSLE factors.

r.what.color Queries colors for a raster map layer.

r.what Queries raster maps on their category values and category labels.

r3.colors Creates/modifies the color table associated with a 3D raster map.

r3.colors.out Exports the color table associated with a 3D raster map.

r3.cross.rast Creates cross section 2D raster map from 3D raster map based on 2D elevation map

r3.gwflow Numerical calculation program for transient, confined groundwater flow in three dimensions.

r3.in.ascii Converts a 3D ASCII raster text file into a (binary) 3D raster map.

r3.in.bin Imports a binary raster file into a GRASS 3D raster map.

r3.in.v5d Import 3-dimensional Vis5D files.

r3.in.xyz Create a 3D raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics

r3.info Outputs basic information about a user-specified 3D raster map layer.

r3.mapcalc Raster map calculator.

r3.mask Establishes the current working 3D raster mask.

r3.mkdspf Creates a display file from an existing 3D raster map according to specified threshold levels.

r3.neighbors Makes each voxel value a function of the values assigned to the voxels around it, and stores new voxel values in an output 3D raster map

r3.null Explicitly create the 3D NULL-value bitmap file.

r3.out.ascii Converts a 3D raster map layer into a ASCII text file.

r3.out.bin Exports a GRASS 3D raster map to a binary array.

r3.out.netcdf Export a 3D raster map as netCDF file.

r3.out.v5d Exports GRASS 3D raster map to 3-dimensional Vis5D file.

r3.out.vtk Converts 3D raster maps into the VTK-ASCII format.

r3.retile Retiles an existing 3D raster map with user defined x, y and z tile size.

r3.stats Generates volume statistics for 3D raster maps.

r3.support Allows creation and/or modification of raster3d map layer support files.

r3.timestamp Print/add/remove a timestamp for a 3D raster map

r3.to.rast Converts 3D raster maps to 2D raster maps

r3.univar Calculates univariate statistics from the non-null cells of a 3D raster map.

t.connect Prints/sets general temporal GIS database connection for current mapset.

t.create Creates a space time dataset.

t.info Lists information about space time datasets and maps.

t.list Lists space time datasets and maps registered in the temporal database.

t.merge Merges several space time datasets into a single space time dataset.

t.rast.accdetect Detects accumulation patterns in temporally accumulated space time raster datasets created by t.rast.accumulate.

t.rast.accumulate Computes cyclic accumulations of a space time raster dataset.

t.rast.aggregate.ds Aggregates data of an existing space time raster dataset using the time intervals of a second space time dataset.

t.rast.aggregate Aggregates temporally the maps of a space time raster dataset by a user defined granularity.

t.rast.colors Creates/modifies the color table associated with each raster map of the space time raster dataset.

t.rast.export Exports space time raster dataset.

t.rast.extract Extracts a subset of a space time raster datasets.

t.rast.gapfill Replaces gaps in a space time raster dataset with interpolated raster maps.

t.rast.import Imports space time raster dataset.

t.rast.list Lists registered maps of a space time raster dataset.

t.rast.mapcalc Performs spatio-temporal mapcalc expressions on temporally sampled maps of space time raster datasets.

t.rast.neighbors Performs a neighborhood analysis for each map in a space time raster dataset.

t.rast.out.vtk Exports space time raster dataset as VTK time series.

t.rast.series Performs different aggregation algorithms from r.series on all or a subset of raster maps in a space time raster dataset.

t.rast.to.rast3 Converts a space time raster dataset into a raster3d map.

t.rast.univar Calculates univariate statistics from the non-null cells for each registered raster map of a space time raster dataset.

t.rast3d.extract Extracts a subset of a space time 3D raster dataset.

t.rast3d.list Lists registered maps of a space time raster3d dataset.

t.rast3d.mapcalc Performs r3.mapcalc expressions on maps of sampled space time 3D raster datasets.

t.rast3d.univar Calculates univariate statistics from the non-null cells for each registered raster3d map of a space time raster3d dataset.

t.register Registers raster, vector and raster3d maps in a space time datasets.

t.remove Removes space time datasets from temporal database.

t.rename Renames a space time dataset

t.sample Samples the input space time dataset(s) with a sample space time dataset and print the result to stdout.

t.shift Shifts temporally the maps of a space time dataset.

t.snap Snaps temporally the maps of a space time dataset.

t.support Modifies the metadata of a space time dataset.

t.topology Lists temporal topology of a space time dataset.

t.unregister Unregisters raster, vector and raster3d maps from the temporal database or a specific space time dataset.

t.vect.db.select Prints attributes of vector maps registered in a space time vector dataset.

t.vect.export Exports a space time vector dataset as GRASS GIS specific archive file.

t.vect.extract Extracts a subset of a space time vector dataset.

t.vect.import Imports a space time vector dataset from a GRASS GIS specific archive file.

t.vect.list Lists registered maps of a space time vector dataset.

t.vect.observe.strds Observes specific locations in a space time raster dataset over a period of time using vector points.

t.vect.univar Calculates univariate statistics of attributes for each registered vector map of a space time vector dataset

t.vect.what.strds Stores raster map values at spatial and temporal positions of vector points as vector attributes.

v.buffer Creates a buffer around vector features of given type.

v.build.all Rebuilds topology on all vector maps in the current mapset.

v.build Creates topology for vector map.

v.build.polylines Builds polylines from lines or boundaries.

v.category Attaches, deletes or reports vector categories to map geometry.

v.centroids Adds missing centroids to closed boundaries.

v.class Classifies attribute data, e.g. for thematic mapping

v.clean Toolset for cleaning topology of vector map.

v.colors Creates/modifies the color table associated with a vector map.

v.colors.out Exports the color table associated with a vector map.

v.convert.all Converts all older versions of GRASS vector maps in current mapset to current format.

v.convert Imports older versions of GRASS vector maps.

v.db.addcolumn Adds one or more columns to the attribute table connected to a given vector map.

v.db.addtable Creates and connects a new attribute table to a given layer of an existing vector map.

v.db.connect Prints/sets DB connection for a vector map to attribute table.

v.db.dropcolumn Drops a column from the attribute table connected to a given vector map.

v.db.droprow Removes a vector feature from a vector map through attribute selection.

v.db.droptable Removes existing attribute table of a vector map.

v.db.join Joins a database table to a vector map table.

v.db.reconnect.all Reconnects attribute tables for all vector maps from the current mapset to a new database.

v.db.renamecolumn Renames a column in the attribute table connected to a given vector map.

v.db.select Prints vector map attributes.

v.db.univar Calculates univariate statistics on selected table column for a GRASS vector map.

v.db.update Updates a column in the attribute table connected to a vector map.

v.delaunay Creates a Delaunay triangulation from an input vector map containing points or centroids.

v.dissolve Dissolves boundaries between adjacent areas sharing a common category number or attribute.

v.distance Finds the nearest element in vector map 'to' for elements in vector map 'from'.

v.drape Converts 2D vector features to 3D by sampling of elevation raster map.

v.edit Edits a vector map, allows adding, deleting and modifying selected vector features.

v.external Creates a new pseudo-vector map as a link to an OGR-supported layer or a PostGIS feature table.

v.external.out Defines vector output format.

v.extract Selects vector features from an existing vector map and creates a new vector map containing only the selected features.

v.extrude Extrudes flat vector features to 3D vector features with defined height.

v.generalize Performs vector based generalization.

v.hull Produces a 2D/3D convex hull for a given vector map.

v.in.ascii Creates a vector map from an ASCII points file or ASCII vector file.

v.in.db Creates new vector (points) map from database table containing coordinates.

v.in.dxf Converts file in DXF format to GRASS vector map.

v.in.e00 Imports E00 file into a vector map.

v.in.geonames Imports geonames.org country files into a vector points map.

v.in.gns Imports US-NGA GEOnet Names Server (GNS) country files into a GRASS vector points map.

v.in.lidar Converts LAS LiDAR point clouds to a GRASS vector map with libLAS.

v.in.lines Imports ASCII x,y[,z] coordinates as a series of lines.

v.in.mapgen Imports Mapgen or Matlab-ASCII vector maps into GRASS.

v.in.ogr Imports vector data into a GRASS vector map using OGR library.

v.in.region Creates a vector polygon from the current region extent.

v.in.wfs Imports GetFeature from a WFS server.

v.info Outputs basic information about a vector map.

v.kcv Randomly partition points into test/train sets.

v.kernel Generates a raster density map from vector points map.

v.krige Performs ordinary or block kriging for vector maps.

v.label Creates paint labels for a vector map from attached attributes.

v.lidar.correction Correction of the v.lidar.growing output. It is the last of the three algorithms for LIDAR filtering.

v.lidar.edgedetection Detects the object's edges from a LIDAR data set.

v.lidar.growing Building contour determination and Region Growing algorithm for determining the building inside

v.lrs.create Creates a linear reference system.

v.lrs.label Creates stationing from input lines, and linear reference system.

v.lrs.segment Creates points/segments from input lines, linear reference system and positions read from stdin or a file.

v.lrs.where Finds line id and real km+offset for given points in vector map using linear reference system.

v.mkgrid Creates a vector map of a user-defined grid.

v.neighbors Neighborhood analysis tool for vector point maps.

v.net.alloc Allocates subnets for nearest centers (direction from center).

v.net.allpairs Computes the shortest path between all pairs of nodes in the network.

v.net.bridge Computes bridges and articulation points in the network.

v.net.centrality Computes degree, centrality, betweeness, closeness and eigenvector centrality measures in the network.

v.net.components Computes strongly and weakly connected components in the network.

v.net.connectivity Computes vertex connectivity between two sets of nodes in the network.

v.net.distance Computes shortest distance via the network between the given sets of features.

v.net.flow Computes the maximum flow between two sets of nodes in the network.

v.net Performs network maintenance.

v.net.iso Splits net by cost isolines.

v.net.path Finds shortest path on vector network.

v.net.salesman Creates a cycle connecting given nodes (Traveling salesman problem).

v.net.spanningtree Computes minimum spanning tree for the network.

v.net.steiner Creates Steiner tree for the network and given terminals.

v.net.timetable Finds shortest path using timetables.

v.net.visibility Performs visibility graph construction.

v.normal Tests for normality for vector points.

v.out.ascii Exports a vector map to a GRASS ASCII vector representation.

v.out.dxf Exports vector map to DXF file format.

v.out.gps Exports a vector map to a GPS receiver or file format supported by GPSBabel.

v.out.ogr Exports a vector map layer to any of the supported OGR vector formats.

v.out.postgis Exports a vector map layer to PostGIS feature table.

v.out.pov Converts GRASS x,y,z points to POV-Ray x,z,y format.

v.out.svg Exports a vector map to SVG file.

v.out.vtk Converts a vector map to VTK ASCII output.

v.outlier Removes outliers from vector point data.

v.overlay Overlays two vector maps.

v.pack Packs up a vector map and support files for copying.

v.parallel Creates parallel line to input vector lines.

v.patch Creates a new vector map by combining other vector maps.

v.perturb Random location perturbations of vector points.

v.proj Re-projects a vector map from one location to the current location.

v.qcount Indices for quadrat counts of sites lists.

v.random Generates random 2D/3D vector points.

v.rast.stats Calculates univariate statistics from a raster map based on a vector map and uploads statistics to new attribute columns.

v.reclass Changes vector category values for an existing vector map according to results of SQL queries or a value in attribute table column.

v.rectify Rectifies a vector by computing a coordinate transformation for each object in the vector based on the control points.

v.report Reports geometry statistics for vector maps.

v.sample Samples a raster map at vector point locations.

v.segment Creates points/segments from input vector lines and positions.

v.select Selects features from vector map (A) by features from other vector map (B).

v.split Splits vector lines to shorter segments.

v.support Updates vector map metadata.

v.surf.bspline Performs bicubic or bilinear spline interpolation with Tykhonov regularization.

v.surf.idw Provides surface interpolation from vector point data by Inverse Distance Squared Weighting.

v.surf.rst Performs surface interpolation from vector points map by splines.

v.timestamp Modifies a timestamp for a vector map.

v.to.3d Performs transformation of 2D vector features to 3D.

v.to.db Populates attribute values from vector features.

v.to.lines Converts vector polygons or points to lines.

v.to.points Creates points along input lines in new vector map with 2 layers.

v.to.rast Converts (rasterize) a vector map into a raster map.

v.to.rast3 Converts a vector map (only points) into a 3D raster map.

v.transform Performs an affine transformation (shift, scale and rotate) on vector map.

v.type Changes type of vector features.

v.univar Calculates univariate statistics for attribute.

v.unpack Unpacks a vector map packed with v.pack.

v.vect.stats Count points in areas, calculate statistics from point attributes.

v.vol.rst Interpolates point data to a 3D raster map using regularized spline with tension (RST) algorithm.

v.voronoi Creates a Voronoi diagram in current region from an input vector map containing points or centroids.

v.what Queries a vector map at given locations.

v.what.rast Uploads raster values at positions of vector points to the table.

v.what.rast3 Uploads 3D raster values at positions of vector points to the table.

v.what.vect Uploads vector values at positions of vector points to the table.